'\" t
.\" ** The above line should force tbl to be a preprocessor **
.\" Man page for Xvnc
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 2006 - 2016, Joachim.Falk@gmx.de
.\" Copyright (C), 1998, Marcus.Brinkmann@ruhr-uni-bochum.de
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" Debian GNU/Linux distribution.
.\"
.TH vnc.conf 5x "Jan 5th, 2017" "TigerVNC 1.7" "Virtual Network Computing"
.SH NAME
vnc.conf \- configuration file for Virtual Network Computing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IR $variable\ \| =\ " someValue """;

.IR $variable\ \| =\ " someValue """;

.IR $variable\ \| .=\ " someValue """;

.IR $variable\ \| =\ \| $var1\ \| .\ \| $var2 ;

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I /etc/vnc.conf
is the site wide configuration file for
.BR vncserver (1),
the free X server for
.B Virtual Network Computing
(VNC). It can be used to change the behavior of the server at startup time,
although for all values suitable defaults are preset.

.I vnc.conf
will be parsed by vncserver. Then vncserver will proceed and read
.IR $HOME/.vnc/vnc.conf ,
a file that can be changed on a per-user base. It has the some syntax and
options as the file described in this document.

.SH EXAMPLES
The site wide configuration file\fI /etc/vnc.conf\fP should come with the Debian package tigervnc-standalone-server.
This file serves as an example for the user file\fI $HOME/.vnc/vnc.conf\fP.
The site wide configuration file is pretty self-descriptive, and this document will mainly repeat the information that already can be found there.

.SH OVERVIEW
The file is in
.BR perl (1)
syntax, although only variable assignment is allowed for your safety and
convenience. But there still a variety of possibilities to set the string
variables.

All variable names are prefixed by `$'. You can assign a string to a
variable using the `=' operator, and you can append a string to a variable
using the `.=' operator. You can concatenate two strings using the `.'
operator. You can substitute variables even inside quotes. You can access
the environment variables using the notation
.IR $ENV{VARIABLE} .

You can unset a variable by assigning\fB undef\fP to it. Use this to
return the state of the variable from `set' to `use default'.

You must end a line with a semicolon.

.SH OPTIONS
The options are given with their default value if this is known.

.TP
.IR $vncClasses\ \| =\ " /var/www/vnc """;
Should be the path to the java classes of the server.
.TP
.IR $baseHttpPort\ \| =\  undef ";
This is the port base for the mini-HTTP server that is built-in to
.BR Xtigervnc (1) .
The real http port will be derived from this base plus the display number.
.TP
.IR $XFConfigPath\ \| =\ " /etc/X11/xorg.conf """;
Can be set to the global
.I xorg.conf 
file. This will be
parsed to gain default values for
.I $fontPath .
.\"and
.\".IR $colorPath .
If you want to disable this feature, point it to an
invalid file,
.I /invalid
for example.
.TP
.IR $fontPath
Should be a comma separated list of fonts to be added to the font
path. If not specified, and
.I $XFConfigPath
is valid, vncserver will read the $fontPath from there. If both are
not set, the default will apply.
.\".TP
.\".IR $colorPath
.\"should be the RGB file to be used by X. This can also be taken from the
.\".I XF86Config
.\"file if specified by
.\".IR $XFConfigPath .
.TP
.IR $PAMService\ \| =\ " tigervnc """;
This parameter specifies the PAM service used for plain password authentication if one of the security types \fB Plain\fP,\fB TLSPlain\fP, or\fB X509Plain\fP is used.
If
.I /etc/pam.d/vnc
is not present, then
.BR tigervncserver (1)
expects to use the\fB tigervnc\fP PAM service to authenticate the passwords of users when any of the\fB *Plain\fP security types are used.
Note that the tigervnc-common package provides the PAM service configuration file
.IR /etc/pam.d/tigervnc .
Otherwise, if
.I /etc/pam.d/vnc
is present, then the\fB vnc\fP PAM service will be used.
.TP
.IR $sslAutoGenCertCommand\ \| =\ " openssl\ req\ \-newkey\ ec:/etc/tigervnc/ecparams.pem\ \-x509\ \-days\ 2190\ \-nodes """;
The command specified by the\fI $sslAutoGenCertCommand\fP parameter is used to auto generate the certificate for the\fI \-X509Cert\fP and\fI \-X509Key\fP options of
.BR Xtigervnc (1) .
The configuration for
.BR openssl (1SSL)
is taken from
.I /etc/tigervnc/ssleay.cnf
where we substitute\fB @HostName@\fP by the fully qualified domain name of the host.
.TP
.IR $vncUserDir\ \| =\ " $ENV{HOME}/.vnc """;
Contains the filename for the log files directory of Xvnc
(the server) and the viewers that are connected to it.
.TP
.IR $vncPasswdFile\ \| =\ \| $vncUserDir\ \| .\ " /passwd """;
Contains the filename of the password file for Xtigervnc. This file is only used for the security types\fB VncAuth\fP,\fB TLSVnc\fP, and\fB X509Vnc\fP.
.TP
.IR $vncStartup\ \| =\ " /etc/X11/XSession """;
Points to a script that will be started at the very beginning of the Xvnc
session.
.TP
.IR $xauthorityFile\ \| =\ " $ENV{HOME}/.Xauthority """;
Specifies the path to the X authority file that should be used
by your Xvnc server.
.TP
.IR $desktopName\ \| =\ " ${HOSTFQDN}:nn\ ($ENV{LOGNAME}) """;
Should be set to the default name of the desktop.
This can be changed at the command line with
.IR -name .
.TP
.IR $wmDecoration\ \| =\ " 8x64 """;
Sets the adjustment of\fI $geometry\fP to accommodate the window decoration
used by the X11 window manager. This is used to fully display the VNC desktop
even if the VNC viewer is not in full screen mode.
.TP
.IR $geometry\ \| =\ " 1900x1200 """;
This sets the framebuffer width & height. A default for this option as well as the
.IR $depth
and
.IR $pixelformat
options can be derived if the
.BR tigervncserver (1)
is run in a X session \(en either $ENV{DISPLAY} or the session given by\fI $getDefaultFrom\fP
\(en with the \fI\-xdisplaydefaults\fP option. The geometry can also be changed
at the commandline with the \fI\-geometry\fP option. Otherwise, the fixed defaults
given here as well as in the following two configuration parameter documentations will be used.
.TP
.IR $depth\ \| =\ " 32 """;
This sets the framebuffer color depth, i.e., the number of bits per pixel to use.
It must be either 32, 24, 16, or 8.
.TP
.IR $pixelformat\ \| =\ " rgb888 """;
Specifies the pixel format for the
.BR Xtigervnc (1) 
server to use (BGRnnn or RGBnnn). The default for depth 8 is BGR233 (meaning the
most significant two bits represent blue, the next three green, and the least
significant three represent red), the default for depth 16 is RGB565 and for
depth 24 and 32 is RGB888.
.TP
.I $getDefaultFrom
This option lets you set the display from which you can query the default of
the above three options, if you don't want to start vncserver
from within a running X server. It will be added to the call of xdpyinfo.
It is useful to get the default from the X server you will run xvncviewer
in, because the data has not to be recalculated then.

.IR $getDefaultFrom\ \| =\ " \-display\ localhost:0 """;
is an example how to do this.
.
.TP
.IR $rfbwait\ \| =\ " 30000 """;
Sets the maximum time in msec to wait for the VNC client viewer.
.
.TP
.IR $localhost\ \| =\ " yes """;
Should the TigerVNC server only listen on localhost for incoming TigerVNC
connections. This is useful if you use SSH and want to stop non-SSH
connections from any other hosts. Hence,
.IR $localhost\ \| =\ " yes """
is the default if security types are not specified.
In this case, only the security type \fBVncAuth\fP will be offered.
If the security types are specified, either via the option \fI\-SecurityTypes\fP given to
.BR tigervncserver (1)
or via the \fI$SecurityTypes\fP configuration parameter in
.IR /etc/vnc.conf
or in
.IR $HOME/.vnc/vnc.conf ,
then the default depends on the specified security types.
The default will be 
.IR $localhost\ \| =\ " no """
if the specified security types contain at least one of the \fB TLS*\fP or\fB X509*\fP secutity types and also contain none of the \fP *None\fP security types.
As always, the defaults can be overwritten on the commandline via the \fI\-localhost\fP option or via the \fI$localhost\fP configuration paramater in 
.I /etc/vnc.conf
or in
.IR $HOME/.vnc/vnc.conf .
.TP
.IR $SecurityTypes\ \| =\ " \fBVncAuth\fP """
The \fI$SecurityTypes\fP parameter contains a comma separated list of the default security types the Xtigervnc server will offer.
Available security types are \fBNone\fP, \fBVncAuth\fP, \fBPlain\fP, \fBTLSNone\fP, \fBTLSVnc\fP, \fBTLSPlain\fP, \fBX509None\fP, \fBX509Vnc\fP and \fBX509Plain\fP.
The \fP *None\fP security types do not offer any kind of user authentication for connecting VNC sessions.
Hence, combining a \fB *None\fP security type and
.IR $localhost\ \| =\ " no """
is a very bad idea.
The \fB TLS*\fP and\fB X509*\fP security types do enforce SSL encryption for data transmission.
Hence, combining a \fB TLS*\fP or \fB X509*\fP security type and
.IR $localhost\ \| =\ " yes """
is a senseless idea.
Thus, in the case of
.IR $localhost\ \| =\ " no """, the default for\fI $SecurityTypes\fP will be extended from  \fBVncAuth\fP to \fBVncAuth\fP,\fBTLSVnc\fP.
.TP
.IR $PlainUsers\ \| =\ " $ENV{LOGNAME} """
The \fI$PlainUsers\fP configuration parameter contains a a comma seperated list of users
that are authorized to access the VNC server if the security types\fB Plain\fP,\fB TLSPlain\fP,
or\fB X509Plain\fP are used to establish the connection. The password for these users are
check by the system via the PAM service specified via \fI$PAMService\fP option. On default,
only the user starting the tigervncserver is contained in the list. By specifying \fB*\fP, any user can authenticate using this security type.
.TP
\fI$X509Cert\fP and \fI$X509Key\fP
.RS
These two options contain the filenames for a certificate and its
key that is used for the security types\fB X509None\fP,\fB X509Vnc\fP, and\fB X509Plain\fP.
If nothing is specified \(en the default case \(en then a self-signed certificate is
auto-generated by
.BR tigervncserver (1)
and stored in
.I $HOME/.vnc/${HOSTFQDN}-SrvCert.pem
and
.IR $HOME/.vnc/${HOSTFQDN}-SrvKey.pem ,
respectively.
.
If filenames are given for \fI$X509Cert\fP and \fI$X509Key\fP either here or
on the commandline via \fI\-X509Cert\fP and \fI\-X509Key\fP options, then
the auto generation is disabled and the user has to take care
that usable certificates are present.
.ES
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/bin/vncserver
A wrapper script around
.B Xvnc
to start the server with appropriate defaults.
.TP
.TP
.B /usr/bin/vncpasswd
Command to create and change password files to be used by the RFB protocol
(can be specified in the
.I $vncPasswdFile
variable).
.B /usr/bin/Xvnc
The real server. Will be invoked by vncserver.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR Xvnc (1),
.BR vncserver (1),
.BR x0vncserver (1),
.BR vncpasswd (1),
.BR vncviewer (1).
.
.SH AUTHOR
2016 \- Modified for TigerVNC 1.7 by Joachim Falk (Joachim.falk@gmx.de)
2006 \- Modified for vnc 4.1.2 by Joachim Falk (Joachim.falk@gmx.de)
1998 \- Originally written by Marcus Brinkmann (Marcus.Brinkmann@ruhr-uni-bochum.de)
for the Debian GNU/Linux Distribution.
